Hey, you.
Are you ready?
The Haitian community in our area
was growing,
and a new Haitian Creole congregation
was formed nearby.
We checked out their territory
and saw that they needed a lot of help.
“Step on over.”
So should we do this?
I’ve been praying for more studies.
I think this might just be my answer.
Yeah?
I’m in.
Good. Then as soon as we get home,
we can pray about it.
Our new language was exciting.
We spent every spare second we had
trying to get better.
We had so much joy,
but we had challenges too.
Nicolas,
could you read the next paragraph
for us, please?
Yeah, sorry.
Where are we?
Our study was so nice today,
wasn’t it, Nicolas?
It was.
And yet again, I was totally lost.
We didn’t realize
that Nico just wasn’t finding
the same joy as us.
To help Nico,
we did a few more things in our language.
Besides family worship,
we attended one meeting a month
with our old congregation.
Well, honestly,
I’m a little worried about Nico.
He’s having a tough time
adapting to our new congregation.
Hmm, I get it.
You know, back when we first joined
a foreign-language congregation,
everything was fun and new.
But after a little while,
we noticed that our kids
had lost their enthusiasm.
They were still hearing about Jehovah,
but, honestly, they weren’t learning
because it wasn’t in their language.
Is that why you moved back?
It was.
But every family is different.
We each have to decide
what’s best for our own.
Thanks, that’s true.
I found the perfect article
to help us decide what to do.
It mentioned the example of Daniel.
He had to speak
different languages every day,
but he made sure to study in Hebrew,
his language.
The article mentioned Psalm 119:11:
“In my heart I treasure up your saying.”
For Nico to treasure God’s Word in his heart,
we felt he needed even more guidance
in the language of his heart.
The truth is,
when I’m at the meeting in my language,
it’s different.
I don’t have to think a lot
just to understand what I’m hearing.
Well, I think it’s clear
what’s best for our family.
It is.
But what about your students?
It’s OK, Nico.
We’ll find a way to help them.
The language we’re immersed in every day
is the language of your heart.
So it’s best for you
to keep growing spiritually
in that same language.
It was the best decision
in order for Nico to stay close to Jehovah.
But we did miss the Haitian Creole field.
So a few years later . . .
Are you ready?
I’m a little nervous, but I think I’m ready.
We decided it was the right time
to move back.
We’re so glad our decision helped Nico
build a solid foundation
for his faith and his future.